hi everybody actually can you allow me to present my or to share my screen here or the host I can help you share from my end if that's okay i think i can okay i can share as well great welcome everybody as gift said we're going to introduce you to dfs lab but more importantly the boot camp and what to expect from the event coming up and inca from stuller is also going to say a inca from stuller is also going to say a few things about how bootcamp fits into their the community fund and also you know a little bit about what to also you know a little bit about what to expect from their side so here's our
expect from their side so here's our agenda we'll give you kind of a quick overview of sdf and it's something fun little bianca and then i'll give you a bit more about the boot camp so just to kind of quickly give so just to kind of quickly give you an introduction to who we are at dfs you an introduction to who we are at dfs lab we we're an early stage investor in the african tech scene we invest very early often at precede in startups that are digitizing the african economy so we invest in a lot of marketplaces e-commerce b2b e-commerce social commerce and everything along kind of the value chain of commerce in the value chain of commerce in africa and we have kind of a we're a very we have kind of a we're a very research driven thesis based investor and our belief is that you know while a lot of attention is being paid to fintech and some of the other areas that investors are excited about we think the real prize is actually using some of those tools to digitize the economy root and branch and go from kind of cache based and offline to digital based and online
and offline to digital based and online so you can tell because of that so you can tell because of that belief you can probably understand why you know we're very aligned with Stellar because i think they have kind of a because I think they have kind of a similar belief around you know digitizing the economy and making finance seamless and online and all that so and we're as an investor we're very hands-on we don't call ourselves an accelerator program because we don't do batches with kind of a fixed curriculum we actually focus on the individual needs of each company but we're very hands-on we spend we have you very hands-on we spend we have you know a few folks dedicated full-time basically to supporting our portfolio companies and we're basically there to help them usually go from the early precede phase to their first seed round that's where we generally tend to intervene and we can't say too much about it yet but
can't say too much about it yet but there's more coming in the partnership area between us and Stellar around you know how we can help support more companies with more funding and things like that so i can't say too things like that so I can't say too much about it yet but should be some exciting stuff coming up in the future so that's us we have team in that's us we have team in nairobi that's gift and also joseph who who's there as well but we also have people in kenya and south africa I'm in paris steven other partners in san francisco and we bring a whole host of different skills i won't go into everything but i think that gives you a little bit of a think that gives you a little bit of a an intro to who we are as an organization I could do you want to take over for a sec and give us a little bit more background on Stellar and the community fund sure thing yeah that makes a lot of sense yeah so for everyone who doesn't know me and it's neon desk my name is ankur and I'm a program manager at the steli development foundation or sdf or short bar we're going to say a
or sdf or short bar we're going to say a lot of abbreviations today sdf scf so just preparing you for that and so sdf is a preparing you for that and so sdf is a non-profit organization with a mission to create equitable access to the global financial system and as a non-profit we shepherd the development and growth of Stellar which is a decentralized open source layer one blockchain network that connects the world's financial infrastructure so Stellar is really a back end so to speak to power apps and back end so to speak to power apps and services where anyone can issue store transfer and trade all sorts of assets seller also has built-in like account logic for creating accounts and assets signing transactions and tracking balances overall like Stellar is really purposely designed to streamline financial services and really unlock the world's economic potential by making money more fluid markets more open and people more empowered so there is like an exterior is an
so there is like an exterior is an open source which means that anyone can build whatever they desire on the network with no application or permission needed and speaking of building on Stellar i lead a program called the Stellar I lead a program called the Stellar community fund or scf for short the second abbreviation which is an open application a grant program hosted by us that serves us the springboard for many businesses and developers building on Stellar to turn their concepts into tangible products and services based on input from the Stellar community we've actually it's quite an old fund like we're together with our predecessor it's been around since about like 2016 and has distributed almost 200 million xlm which is Stellar's native currency to hundreds of seller-based projects based on community input so that's pretty exciting you know what's different i know that there are many grants out
know that there are many grants out there for blockchain so what makes us different three reasons so on at scf all kinds of use cases and project scope sizes are welcome and where other grants may primarily focus on innovation on traditional like services scf also funds like d5 nfts community education and developer tool projects also the community is actively involved in guiding and supporting the projects as well as voting for the projects they want to see earn a grant also fun fact scf grants have no strings attached so this means that grant recipients decide how to spend their grant and don't need to pay anything back so pretty sweet i would say back so pretty sweet I would say so saf really operates biannually in form of rounds and right now the scf is form of rounds and right now the scf is welcoming submissions for its 11th iteration it's been 11 rounds already
iteration it's been 11 rounds already with a total excellent pool of 8 million so any developer team or company building on seller can submit to the scf and request funding up to about like 200 a thousand dollars worth of xlm which depends on their project's code aside from funding participating in scf allows you to gather useful feedback from the community gain traction in the ecosystem and also opens up unique opportunities for growth so yeah and for the first time ever let's skip let's go to the next slide jake yeah for the first time ever submissions that get selected to participate in the scf and are eligible to participate in boot camp can announce now participating sorry can now participate in a virtual startup bootcamp from november 1 to four that will really like kick start their
that will really like kick start their journey on Stellar or even if you're already in Stellar ecosystem like help with a particular problem that you haven't been able to solve before with the help of experts and facilitators from both sdf dfs lab and the community so yeah over the course of a few days participants will work with these facilitators to find a problem storyboard a solution and develop a rapid prototype before getting feedback from the Stellar community fund from the stella community from the Stellar community but jake will tell you much more about that just so you know before if you want to get considered for participation submit your style based project to the staff before september 25th and this is a little over a week 25th and this is a little over a week so it's really coming up so that is the deadline before september 25th also i saw some questions in the 25th also I saw some questions in the in the q and a section here on the zoom so definitely
section here on the zoom so definitely add your questions there and we'll have a little a q a session like right after everything like at the end of the session right that's all from me and yeah jake take it away thank you okay yeah that was great so yeah I'm gonna give you kind of an so yeah I'm gonna give you kind of an overview of what to expect if you overview of what to expect if you come to this event and we're really excited about it we always we've done a couple of these with Stellar already in the past and they're super fun for us because we get to see new companies who are you know often new to Stellar they're trying to create you know some kind of an innovation or crack some difficult challenge in the financial services space and it's a very kind of a intense interaction where we really get to go deep in what they're trying to build what their challenges are you know
build what their challenges are you know etc we get to meet their team and all etc we get to meet their team and all that kind of thing and so we really like that kind of thing and so we really like them and i think the seller team them and I think the seller team does too for the same reasons you know if you just really get to dive in and for us it's also great that dive in and for us it's also great that we get to be hands-on with each company so we're not just kind of like so we're not just kind of like lecturing about you know the future of fintech and all that kind of stuff when you go to a normal conference the boot camp is really you and your team coming and doing work in a really intensive but structured way with help from a whole bunch of different people us experts Stellar etc so it's not it's definitely not something you want to think about like a typical conference or something like that it's really you working on your product which is you know which is what you should be doing if you're running a so I'm going to start with kind of just high level you know almost like the philosophy of a design sprint right so some of you probably done design sprints you know we didn't sprints you know we didn't invent them and we won't be the last to use them
but we have kind of our own version of the design sprint that we do and the real idea is that you test and prototype a solution in just five days and you start with you know a problem you define you know the challenge that you're trying to overcome and then we have kind of a step-by-step process once you've defined that problem to go from there to a realistic prototype that you can put in front of users and get their reaction and that's the critical thing about a sprint the design sprints is you're trying to avoid building an actual product which sounds weird right like why are we teaching you or why are we encouraging you to avoid building product everyone else is telling you yeah build product that's the most important thing but what's important is actually to build product that people want and this approach of a design sprint is a way to approach of a design sprint is a way to fast forward into the future and say okay how are people reacting to this product before we've actually built it so we
before we've actually built it so we don't have to waste the time building it if they don't react in the way we hope if they don't react in the way we hope and it's a great methodology it's a great methodology there's a few links here you can read more about it i encourage you to do that more about it I encourage you to do that but that's the fundamental philosophy of what we're trying to accomplish with this and you'll be surprised how realistic a and you'll be surprised how realistic a prototype you can build so here's the process now some of you have done you know sprints based on the sprint book which we had to link to on the last book which we had to link to on the last slide or some of the other methodologies this will look a little bit different but it's okay you know a lot of the same but it's okay you know a lot of the same steps are there and the same fundamental outcome is there so because we kind of have limited time and we're planning to we're assuming that there's going to be a large number of participants we're going to try and have each participant team define the problem they're trying to solve before you show up so that'll be important to know is that you know spend a little bit of time
a little bit of time before we start on day one actually figuring out and defining a problem we're going to send you some exercises to do to make sure that you've actually done that because it's actually kind of a common problem we see with product designers and founders where they'll say oh i know what the problem they'll say oh I know what the problem is but they actually haven't thought it through in enough detail to really have a high resolution version of the problem so that's what we're going to ask you to do before the event starts day one will then be to say okay let's take the problem that we have map out what the sort of you know original customer journey is and think through where in that customer journey we might want what do you sort of current or standard you know industry standard customer journey and then where in that customer journey or that sort of experience do we want to intervene with the prototype that we're creating today right so that's day one it's really mapping out the problem in high level detail and
out the problem in high level detail and figuring out where we want to intervene day two and I'm going to show you some examples of each of these in the next few slides so basically in the next few slides so basically you'll come up with a map and i'll show you'll come up with a map and i'll show you the map in a second right day two you're gonna focus on which solutions you know you wanna use in your intervention and you're gonna generate actually a whole bunch of solution ideas you know so you kind of widen the funnel of ideas before you then narrow down on which particular one you think is the best and that process of widening and creating new ideas we have a whole bunch of well not a whole bunch but we have a few well not a whole bunch but we have a few steps and exercises to do to make sure that you really stimulate your creativity and bring in you know the best ideas from the team and make sure that you don't jump on the first idea that comes you know comes to mind but you actually explore really deeply this set of ideas space in your head that you know sort of space in your head that you know sort of the set of the possible if you will
the set of the possible if you will and then we have a similar set of exercises where okay now all the team has kind of put all the ideas out there has kind of put all the ideas out there now we're going to narrow down using some anonymous voting and some ways of giving feedback that try to avoid biasing the solution based on who's the most convincing or who the feedback comes from often you know people think that you know because the ceo said oh i like this one then that's said oh I like this one then that's what we should do and at the end of the what we should do and at the end of the day the ceo probably has to make the decision but we do think that it's better to make sure that everyone's kind of perspective and thought process is kind of treated equally in the initial part so that you know you kind of narrow down the designs based on best thinking and not on who's you know the most senior or the most convincing you know some people just have a great way of putting it but that may not be the best idea so but that may not be the best idea so day two is really going to be about focusing down on okay what's the
focusing down on okay what's the sort of product approach and solution that we want to create the next step after that and that's kind of end of day two going into day kind of end of day two going into day three is first you're gonna storyboard your prototype they're pretty high level of detail now people always want to resist this they you know they found their idea on day two they want to jump right in and build it but we really push back on that it's not a good idea and the reason it's not is because basically when you jump in and try to build something you think you know what you're building because you've got this idea in your head but that idea doesn't have enough detail to actually be a coherent feature on your product and so what happens is you start building you build you know part a and part c and part f and then you realize you gotta fill in the other stuff and as you start to fill
the other stuff and as you start to fill in the other stuff that you weren't thinking about you know when you just kick the thing off you realize that i've got to redo part a you realize that i've got to redo part a because it doesn't fit together better you know it didn't fit together well or doesn't make sense now that i've thought through part b and you start creating kind of a non-linear problem to solve where now everything is interrelated and you have to change this when they have to change this and slows you way down and you end up having to you way down and you end up having to often sometimes just completely restart and do the whole thing from the beginning right most of you probably experience that at some point when you're dealing with a complex system like a product right so what we say we encourage so what we say we encourage people to do is spend the time it only people to do is spend the time it only takes a maybe two hours to really create a detailed storyboard that says okay at each step here's what we're going to do right there's going to be a button that button is going to take you here you know it's is going to take you here you know it's going to you're going to do something you're going to put in some data you're going to whatever you're going to do right all that stuff will be thought out including pretty high level detail on content if
pretty high level detail on content if there is any so if there's wording if there's text if there's images you can say okay we need an image here you can say okay we need an image here we need to you know we need some wording we need to you know we need some wording here then you go into the then you go into the prototyping phase you've got a the prototyping phase you've got a really detailed map you know that says hey you're going to do it's just like a recipe that you follow and you are going to be so much faster in building your prototype if you've got that recipe laid out or that storyboard so and then in the prototyping phase that'll be day three and it'll actually kind of you know go beyond day three a little bit you'll have a bit of extra time on day four as well where you'll be prototyping you will have support from us but in particular you have support from the Stellar team there'll be some engineer folks who you know the apis and all the ins and outs of the of all the ins and outs of the of all the different seller technology
different seller technology so that you know you won't get hung up so that you know you won't get hung up trying to read through documentation and things like that i mean their things like that I mean their documentation is actually quite good of course but in any case they'll be folks who can but in any case they'll be folks who can help you know live in person as well and there's gonna be the whole community and I'm gonna get into that in a second this is just kind of the sprint aspect there's gonna be a kind of a whole extra there's gonna be a kind of a whole extra layer around all this which is the community part of it so once you're done with your prototype you're gonna get in you're gonna then test it with users and that's actually with users and that's actually something new we're doing this time if any of you were at the previous boot camp we didn't do that but it's supposed to be a integral part of the sprint it's very it's actually the most important part in fact it's really why you do a sprint a design sprint in the first place which is to you know find out what people think and again we're gonna have to we're gonna have kind of an integrated process
integrated process where people from the community can be your user and give you feedback on how you know how the experience goes when they use your product or test the feature or what have you and so you're we're gonna do some workshops on how to do that workshops on how to do that testing in a way that doesn't bias your user it's very easy to bias someone who's testing a product or a feature and they're kind of looking at you see like you know how do you feel when they do x you know how do you feel when they do x or y they don't want to hurt your feelings if it's clear that you're the one who built this thing you know they don't want to say it's terrible or that they don't like it or they give you a they don't like it or they give you a bunch of really positive feedback but it's not you know it's not real it's not you know it's not real it's not their gut it's not their real gut reaction so and there's a lot of other ways you can and there's a lot of other ways you can buy us you know by the way you present it by the way you talk about it present it by the way you talk about it by the way you know the situation you put the person in so we've got we're gonna we have a workshop plan where we're gonna give you
workshop plan where we're gonna give you some tools so that you know how to do some tools so that you know how to do a user test session with a prototype and how to collect the feedback and how to organize that feedback into sort of a useful output so that's the basic sort of step-by-step process of the sprint itself and you know it like i said it's a lot it like I said it's a lot of fun it's very kind of both draining and energizing because it's pretty intense there's a lot of steps and you use in your brain a lot and you kind of dump out all and you kind of dump out all your creativity and make decisions and then build stuff it's pretty cool and what we see is that often within the within each within the within each company not only does it help you know really rapidly go from you know some particular problem you're having with your user base or your you know user experience or whatever it is or you're trying to you know improve or if you're or if you're fundamentally new maybe you're
fundamentally new maybe you're just trying to build a very basic first version of the product if you don't have one yet it really you know it definitely helps do that really quickly and in a way that like i said is based on user way that like I said is based on user feedback and so much more validated and much more likely to result in the final product that you built you know being useful and liked by your users but it's often also a way because you spend because you're so focused and intensively working on your product and you're doing it in the context of seeing a lot of other teams do their products think through their challenges and solutions etc you're interacting with a lot of people who you don't interact with on a daily basis but who are you know experts in this area you know our mentors and facilitators us the Stellar team the community members you're gonna have some really i think most of the time we see teams I think most of the time we see teams having these really interesting kind of revelations about their strategy their product you know their pathway to market their distribution all those other things that don't
all those other things that don't necessarily fit directly into the storyboard that you know or the product that you're prototyping but that fit in around it so it's a it's a really around it so it's a really valuable process i think and valuable process I think and we see a lot of companies getting a lot of value out of it i getting a lot of value out of it i wanted to just kind of quickly give some examples just to illustrate what i was talking about so remember i talked was talking about so remember I talked about first day you draw out the pathway the user pathway and then you figure and then you figure out where you want to focus and intervene so this was a this was one from a customer who was doing a cash in cash out at a mobile money agent network in kenya and you can see kind of all the different process steps that are going on you know they're entering their number they're talking to the agent and i won't go talking to the agent and I won't go through everything and then the team wanted to forward on sorry wanted to focus on these two areas that are circled in green so that was sort of the end of their first day was sort of the end of their first day basically of sprint they came out you
basically of sprint they came out you know this is what they come up know this is what they come up with there's other steps and other things they created but you know this was kind of the main final output and it basically guides the creation of their solutions the following days to say okay we know the process that where we fit in we know the process that where we fit in and we know what we want to change that's essentially what you come out of day one with and what we're going to do we're still kind of fine tuning how we're going to have the interactions with the community members and things like that but we are going to and things like that but we are going to find a way that you can we are going to find a way that you can sort of present and show this to the community probably via discord and either get feedback people may vote on which kind of problem you know problem diagram and you know problem diagram and problem choice that they like the best et cetera so we're going to et cetera so we're going to have some kind of like really cool ways where you can interact with the Stellar community and really get you know even more feedback and more
you know even more feedback and more ideas and more sort of expert help with what you're doing so this is the output of day two or it's one example anyway and what you can see here is we got this three pages i think each one is supposed to be a looks like an app screen on a phone maybe and you know you're just kind of going through a sign looks like a sign up process right there's a sign up button on the first page and then there's a you know looks like there's some marketing lingo on the second page so it's kind of an onboarding process right the next one is maybe a text message based interface so anyway you know i don't know exactly what this I don't know exactly what this storyboard was supposed to be but it was supposed to be an onboarding process for a savings app and you can also see how there's these blue and pink dots you're probably like why are those all over the place why are those all over the place so that's part of one of the steps in the process is
one of the steps in the process is people on the team and also other people outside of the team can vote on which things they like best and which things they like you know that they think should go into the final version of the prototype and that's non-bonding you know it's kind of like a thumbs up on facebook or claps on medium you know it's just kind of like people express their opinion and that gives you kind of this heat map of like gives you kind of this heat map of like oh boy there's a bunch of dots over here oh boy there's a bunch of dots over here on the you know in some part we should on the you know in some part we should probably keep that and there's no dots in this upright no people didn't seem to care about that part so maybe we can cut care about that part so maybe we can cut it out or something like that and eventually you'll have a couple of these because each you know there'll be more than one of these storyboards initially as remember i said we're going initially as remember I said we're going to first start with a bunch of ideas and to first start with a bunch of ideas and then narrow it down eventually the decider on the team will they make a choice and they may choose one storyboard or one sort of three page you know thing or they might reconfigure and
thing or they might reconfigure and mix and match you can do whatever you want but the idea is to use this heat want but the idea is to use this heat map and the feedback that you've got from the team to kind of choose okay we're going to do this particular idea for an onboarding or for a transaction process or whatever you're doing yeah so that's the first thing that again community is going to get involved here too same as before we're still kind of fine-tuning how exactly that's going to work but they're you're going to be able to kind of show and get to be able to kind of show and get feedback on some of this stuff and we're going to have i think some prizes and going to have I think some prizes and voting on like you know best ideas and things like that so day three i believe will produce this three I believe will produce this storyboard so this is an example of storyboard i was talking about storyboard I was talking about it's not super pretty you can see but it gets the job done so essentially these are supposed to be a series of app these are supposed to be a series of app screens you know you can see the wireframes and in a few cases they just photographed
just photographed hand-drawn diagrams and put them straight in there that's totally acceptable and cool then they also put you know you can see kind of the step-by-step with the yellow sticky notes where each one kind of says you know what's happening at each step and you get a little bit of the kind of you get a little bit of the kind of the menu options and things like that and you know basically it's kind of like a transaction flow on some level and so this is you know doesn't have to be that you know that you don't have tons and tons of detail as long as you know what's happening on each page and all the pages that you have to build and how they kind of interconnect to each other you know that's what you need to get done and once you have that then it's really easy then you just you know then you're just heads down you're building the other thing we usually do is wire diagram for the transaction process that's happening on the back end and that's you know where you're gonna be interfacing with the different parts of the Stellar system and you're in your own you know your
and you're in your own you know your own system as well if you have one and so this usually helps kind of clarify both the information and money flow if you know if it's a financial transaction of some kind that's happening on the back end not everyone needs to do one of back end not everyone needs to do one of these but most people do it's usually a valuable exercise doesn't take very long but again same idea it's basically you're trying to just map everything out so that you go to the building mode you're not drawing the you know the blueprint diagram as you build at the same time right you as you build at the same time right you have the blueprint then you build now I mentioned and alluded to some of this stuff earlier but one of the things that's really cool about this boot camp is and we're really excited about anyway is we're introducing a bunch of new features and things we haven't done before and part of the idea was you know when Stellar came to us and said hey you know Stellar came to us and said hey you know we've done smaller boot camps before we
we've done smaller boot camps before we have a lot of one-on-one stuff but we really want to make it so that but we really want to make it so that each company has a chance so that a we can bring in a lot more companies and we can bring in a lot more companies and make it more available to the entire sort of community fund participants and folks who are applying and we want to make it so that it and we want to make it so that it interacts so that all of them get to interact and the process is interactive with the entire community which is super cool it was a which is super cool it was a little bit daunting i have to say i little bit daunting I have to say i think it was like hey guys you know go think it was like hey guys you know go do that and you're like yeah do go do that and you're like yeah that's gonna be complicated but actually it turned out it was a great idea and it turned out it was a great idea and we're really excited that we did we're really excited that we did it because now we come up with a whole it because now we come up with a whole kind of a new system that we think will kind of a new system that we think will do those two things a lot better and it's gonna be a lot of fun so a few it's gonna be a lot of fun so a few things to expect from this new approach one is as i've mentioned a couple times there's gonna be help from community members to test ideas get feedback get advice etc and the community members are gonna be kind of like activated and online and available and kind of looking in you know on what's happening
looking in you know on what's happening we're like i said we're still exact we're like I said we're still exact mechanisms for that are still being developed but one thing we're trying to do is pair each team with a community member that has relevant expertise and a desire to kind of maybe some you know passion for the area that they're building on and sort of pair you so you get you and sort of pair you so you get an extra person on your team to kind get an extra person on your team to kind of give new ideas and help move the process along and be just like on a sounding board and things like that so that should be pretty cool you get to meet someone new from the community another goal of this and like i said another goal of this and like I said you'll be showing the outputs of your process as we go along to the community and getting feedback but you also of course being at the end kind of showing your final product is a great way to expose what you're doing to the broader community remember the scf awards are a choice by the community itself not just the Stellar team and so you really you know you want to and so you really you know you want to expose people to it make sure they know what you're doing and that'll help a lot when it comes time for the
when it comes time for the voting on you know potentially on your project we've created a bunch of self-directed modules and videos for each step of the sprint process so normally in the past basically i would go up and explain basically I would go up and explain everything and then you know you the sprint participants would do it and with a facilitator now we're trying to make it so you don't need to have a to make it so you don't need to have a facilitator and you don't need to have me talking to you although we will have some points where you know myself or somebody from Stellar we'll jump in and just kind of talk to the whole group but we're trying to make it a lot more self-directed so some teams will probably be able to go a little bit faster some may you know want to take more time in a you know want to take more time in a particular area and so make it a lot better for everything for the suspense you won't be forced to move along at the same speed as everybody else we're also going to have kind of some fun gamification quote unquote where you know as the community sees what people are doing we're going to kind of create some ways for them to react and you know promote certain ideas or teams id you
promote certain ideas or teams id you know products we want it to be positive and inclusive not you know like there's no down voting there's only uploading but you know and there'll be a lot of but you know and there'll be a lot of ways in which to get recognized not just like you know does everyone like this or not but like you know the most this or not but like you know the most improved or the kind of the coolest ideas in different kind of categories and all that kind of stuff and Stellar has been generous enough to give small amount of money for cash prizes so some of the winners in different categories are going to take a little bit of cash home in your pocket it's not bit of cash home in your pocket it's not you know not tons not it's not retirement money but you know just a small amount to kind of like know just a small amount to kind of like get people's blood going a little bit make sure everyone's engaged and trying to put your best foot forward we're also gonna have global time zone coverage so basically you can do this sprint from anywhere in the world and we will have facilitators available at least one facilitator and hopefully one
facilitator and hopefully one technical person available at all times basically which should be exciting and a lot again it'll allow us to have and a lot again it'll allow us to have companies from all over you know entrants from all over the world who participate and to be a lot more participants last time i think we had nine and last time I think we had nine and this time i don't know how many we're this time I don't know how many we're gonna have but it's looking like you know 30 40 1950 so yeah it's gonna be exciting it's so yeah it's gonna be exciting it's gonna be cool there's gonna be a lot of different ideas and gonna be a lot of different ideas and products and cool new technologies so we're definitely looking forward to it so after all that you know this slide just kind of gives you the very basic boil down boiled down version of what to expect you come in with an of what to expect you come in with an idea and a problem you want to solve and you leave with a validated prototype product and maybe some cash so it's a really valuable experience and if you've ever done a sprint you'll know what i mean because almost
you'll know what I mean because almost everybody who goes through them is like oh I'm gonna do another one right away and if nothing else you'll learn the methodology and you'll take it home with you and you'll take it home with you and you can do it again so can you can do it again so gift I'm gonna hand it back to you thanks everybody i don't know do we thanks everybody I don't know do we shoot you guys want any questions or other questions maybe that i should other questions maybe that I should answer i haven't been I haven't been so yeah there are actually a bunch of questions on the q and a chats but let's give room for emmanuel to share their experience as i mentioned earlier emmanuel was a past you know participant at one of the bootcamps we had and you know one of the bootcamps we had and you know also one of the winners same with the crop the cash team so they will pretty much be sharing what their much be sharing what their experience was like as well as maybe also give us a bit as well as maybe also give us a bit of you know what they've been up to since the boot camp
since the boot camp so yeah over to your manual should i stop sharing are should I stop sharing are you guys gonna go on video so people can you guys gonna go on video so people can see you live or sorry gif we lost you should I stop sharing yes you can stop sharing yeah where are you guys okay i can go now okay I can go now yes you can all right awesome thank you so much gifts thanks so much i felt like what gifts thanks so much I felt like what would coffee came while he was giving the presentation a lot of you know not started like just how many months by the way my name is aristic manuel I'm the ceo and the co-founder of link we are building with three crossroads premise infrastructure for africa we are opportunity to be part of the dfs lab and bootcamp probably at the beginning of the year around april really was really fun experience for us
really was really fun experience for us i you know i told when i spoke to anchor I you know I told when I spoke to anchor last i was like that was the last I was like that was the highlight of the year for us really got the ball rolling borrowing towards us building products towards relieving us going to market i think with my for my team i think I think with my for my team I think one of the things we would really always remember were really stepping back really taking a breath of the whole experience right to really understand because when we came into the bootcamp we had built just a piece of stuff around on the Stellar blockchain so we're quite confident we're like okay you know what we can you know skip the chase and go we can you know skip the chase and go straight to day three or you know the fourth day five to them would be but you know we had an awesome facilitator i was really able to walk us through day by day from the springs we got to ask ourselves the toughest questions from the sprints to the crazy eights i think crazy eights the crazy eights I think crazy eights whenever we get crazy ate and it really
whenever we get crazy ate and it really made us understand what we are building who are building for so until today one of the things that we were able to take out from the boots camp really informs our decision even around product deployments even around understanding ui ux and really trying to understand okay yeah if you have a button there would that be a ux problem or how long would that be a ux problem or how long is your solution compared to maybe an existing solution so you're really thinking about things we went down to marketing so for us was a really fun experience a great one we got to learn a experience a great one we got to learn a lot anything just i think it was a week yeah anything just I think it was a week yeah really week my team really you know said okay this week we're really going to put our minds in i think after going to put our minds in I think after the first day and we really saw how it the first day and we really saw how it was but i think it lasted from 12 p.m was but I think it lasted from 12 p.m at 10 to 5 p.m so it can be a bit at 10 to 5 p.m so it can be a bit exhausting but trust me after the full week we're able to after the full week we're able to absorb a lot out of it learn like
absorb a lot out of it learn like we felt like we even knew anything and then from there it really was a springboard through everything we're able to undo today in fact after me after that I'm just probably or two months later who are part of the Stellar community fund which is by the way like you know doing something together i would put some really awesome together I would put some really awesome stuff and we're winners of that too as well so yeah so my experiences throughout the bootcamp i would say like throughout the bootcamp I would say like i said the bootcamp was a highlight like I said the bootcamp was a highlight for us and really was that a major springboard to most of the things we're able to do today we've had awesome partnerships since after the boot camp with companies in financial space and other financial spaces in crypto space in and out of africa to really help us enrich our mission like stella was enrich our mission like Stellar was beautiful because weather payments still was built for payments and when you have stella helping you really solve have Stellar helping you really solve those difficult problems and payments in africa and then you have the boots can really shaken in that your idea to
really shaken in that your idea to really make you understand the things you should really do you're in the right place so yeah thank you very much thank you so much emmanuel that was really you know great a great experience rundown I'm sure a lot of you know other to I'm sure a lot of you know other to be participants would get you know a really good insight on what to expect thank you so much for also taking the time to you know come share your experience so yeah over to you marvellous okay good day everybody I'm marvelous aquinola a cropster crash member and a participant of the Stellar bootcamp around april in crop to catch a season prospective opportunities at the early stage and seeing through them is one important thing we do not joke with the knowledge of having to integrate into our existing platform was
into our existing platform was mind-blowing a lot of deep thought needed to be put in place I'm forced to see the opportunity that comes with it and to see how we can mitigate the challenges to recommit to get the challenges of integration into our existing platform and also to use the use case and also to use the use case challenges considering our major targets being mostly uneducated the experience generally was intriguing and challenging at the same time given that there are a lot of there are a lot that there are a lot of there are a lot to achieve and in a little period of time but i would say every time spent was but I would say every time spent was worth it was an exercise that fostered it was an exercise that fostered teamwork as it presented an avenue for us to learn and as well as to network us to learn and as well as to network with other people and one thing i admit about the old boat and one thing I admit about the old boat campaign is the watchword that says get started not perfect and trust me during the process starting this 20 process of starting your imperfections with made perfect and nothing i particularly enjoyed was the
nothing I particularly enjoyed was the structure of the bootcamp especially when with the way we had to go from when with the way we had to go from conceptualization of a solution to the implement implementation of what is said of the cell solution and it should be alive by saying we were and it should be alive by saying we were not faced with a bit of challenges at the very inception of the old project but with the help of our personal structure gifts and the moderator of the program rk we were able to get answers to every rk we were able to get answers to every of our questions although it is expected that every participating member of the team should be in a common room so as to should be in a common room so as to share ideas and be readily available for discussion it is also noteworthy to mention that there was convenience the exp convenience experience weapon space in a boat camp was very great and my take on with after the very great and my take on with after the whole boots camp is that everybody's idea is very significant it doesn't matter how important you may feel our ideas are it will cost us nothing to actually share it with others
nothing to actually share it with others who knows it might be the spark that is who knows it might be the spark that is needed to light up other people's idea and i cannot mention how lenient and I cannot mention how lenient and patient and also optimistic the project anchors at dls towards every individual team so i'd like to say thank you for the so i'd like to say thank you for the opportunity and i wish everyone aspired opportunity and I wish everyone aspired the very best thank you very much thank you so much marvelous thank you so much for sharing your experiences with us i see that experiences with us I see that some questions have already been answered on the q a already so if you perhaps might have dropped your question you can go back to the q and a you can go back to the q and a section and just read the answers i see section and just read the answers I see anchor went off like she went off you know to [Laughter] to keep the keyboard running by answering your questions so yeah just feel free to go back there to check i feel free to go back there to check i think we're at this stage where we
think we're at this stage where we pretty much just have the floor open for closing remarks and since you know a bunch of the questions has already been answered on the q a chat so yeah been answered on the q a chat so yeah over to you jake and anka yeah i actually yeah I actually thank you jake for answering i think thank you jake for answering I think there is a comment as i was reading there is a comment as I was reading through everything yeah i think there's through everything yeah I think there's a common thread it's like especially like for existing or like you know that because like scf right it's not only for new projects that are completely new to Stellar but it's also for those who are already a bit further ahead or even a bit further and are like you know submitting a new product on Stellar for example that they're thinking about so jake like kind of like is like how would the approach be different for these different types of can they also still like get value can people that are existing also still get value out of the boot camp yeah totally and actually the boot camp in the design square methodology works
in the design square methodology works across any level of organization we've done with unicorns who have we've done with unicorns who have massive product suites that are already you know processing billions of dollars per year and they still you know they have product challenges as well they can define a problem that they want to solve they have you know somewhere in their product flow something's not working the way they want it to work they want to you know ideate test some new things build a prototype of that new feature the cool thing for companies that already have some version of a product built is often you can use either screenshots or if you've already done some prototyping you can modify those prototypes so you get really realistic prototypes sometimes being embedded in stuff that already exists within your product and then just test something that's new relative to what you've already built so yeah definitely doesn't matter what stage you're at this is definitely useful still even if you're further on yeah i would agree it's yeah I would agree it's like it's just a methodology it's not just like oh it's not just kickstarting your product and stuff because
your product and stuff because obviously like you cannot just like build a whole product in a week but it's build a whole product in a week but it's really like singling out this like most pressing problem that you choose to solve in those few weeks and then you get facilitators like that have experience you get community like ecosystem partners that might be able to help you and you can get like developers on Stellar helping with answering any type of like challenges technically that you encounter so yeah like another like thing that i noticed here is that people are like oh are you like building a proof of concept or like an mvp after the like bootcamp so jake like what do you jake like what do you generally see bootcamp participants walk away with after participating in the bootcamp well they're usually building a prototype and i and with the building a prototype and I and with the proof of concept on the back end so it's like usually kind of a design
it's like usually kind of a design you know some sort of design front end and that creates a user experience and that can be done in all kinds of and that can be done in all kinds of different medium you know figma power we use powerpoint anything you know really just depends what you're comfortable with or where you and then usually it's got a proof of concept sort of technical integration on the back end so that you can actually make the machine and the machinery that needs the machine and the machinery that needs to work behind the scenes kind of just at least do the basics right now it's not performance ready and that kind of stuff but you're just yeah proof of concept on the back end side so proof of concept on the back end side so it's a combination of those two things and the you know the idea is that really helps you move you know in that really helps you move you know in only three days you've been able to test both the validity with the customer facing you know sort of prototype design experience prototype and then also test the technical validity so it's really that's the idea is that it's very accelerated way to be able to make a decision as to whether that's the way you want to go or maybe didn't work out how you thought and you avoid having to build a whole
avoid having to build a whole you know minimum bible product before knowing that it's not going to before knowing that it's not going to work yeah that makes a lot of sense I'm trying to let's see answer everything i think we answered most everything I think we answered most of those things let's see how many oh yeah so for the amount of projects we are aiming about like to see if we can get about 30 to like to see if we can get about 30 to 40 for the boot camp depending on how many submissions we get we just have to see usually like for an entire like scf round we're trying to get around 50 because that's usually the maximum amount someone can review like at all it's already a lot trust me but for like and that will be like you know until the final october that 30 deadline but we're expecting to have most of our submissions before the boot camp because the bootcamp can really elevate your presence in the Stellar community fund round
Stellar community fund round yeah I mean i think that makes I think I think that makes sense is anyone if anyone has any last-minute questions put them into the q a now maybe we'll be able to answer q a now maybe we'll be able to answer them but jake I'm gonna give the floor to you well we don't not much else to cover there's a few things here on the screen you can see some next step stuff there's some links and i think we're there's some links and I think we're going to share this powerpoint if I'm not mistaken so but you know definitely go read more about the Stellar community fund obviously if you're applying you should read about it but it's a really cool concept that Stellar has come up with the whole community fund idea so go take a look and learn more complete your submission before september 25th to be considered for the boot camp and plan to come and give it all if you are participating if you're selected to participate so yeah that's hopefully giving you all good sense of
hopefully giving you all good sense of what to expect and what are the motivations and why what you would get out of it and why to go and yeah i hope to see you all there awesome bye guys thank you emmanuel and marvelous too and thank you to your festlab team for participating thank you for bringing looking forward hi everybody